---
title: "Taxonomy In Education"
date: 2021-04-01T01:00:41+03:00
author: Semih Celek
# tags: ["Vex", "STEM", "Activity", "Report", "Learning", "Virtual", "CET"]
hero_image: "/content/images/vincent-burkhead-LhlxYMfnTF0-unsplash.jpg"
---
### 1. How can you determine whether comprehension-type questions are appropriate to your students’ grade or developmental level? 

### 2. Give an example of an application problem from your own field of study.

### 3. The last three items in the cognitive taxonomy—analysis, synthesis, and evaluation—are often called “higher-order skills.” What makes them “higher-order“? 

### 4.  Of all the skills listed in Bloom’s taxonomy, which have you been most successful using in your own schooling? Which have come most naturally to you? Which are more challenging?  

Instructional objectives play important role, when educators creates learning material. Stating instructional objects guides educator on learning metarial and helps both on creating materials, and making assessment on subject. When determining the students developmental state, it's highly important to differentiate the learning stages in terms of knowledge, comprehension, and application. When educator determines the comprehension-type and plans assessment base on that, the assessments needs to measure the comprehension level of students. For example, in programming lecture students needs to; **explain** the key points of the software development, **identify** the important paradigms of computer programming, and **recognize** the programming process. These assessments can be done in different kinds of methods, exams, projects, and writing-assignments might be example. In contrast, in order to identify the developmental level equitably/thoughtfully and grading accurately, the learning objectives and comprehension-types should correlate with each other.

I am really interested in computer programming and I am trying to develop applications that mimicking real-life, so if I were to give a lecture or course, it probably will be about programming. Application skills is one of key implementations of programming lectures, because it makes easier to understand and long-lasting. One way to implement application skill is writing example codes on lectures, and providing opportunities for students to reproduce their own example based on example codes in lectures. In order to achieve this, students should have own or have connection to a computer, after that students should have setup similar or same kind of computer environment(programs, operating-systems, internet-connection, tools). Copying learning environment is one of the crucial parts of programming lecture, when lectures and application has similar setup, it is makes lectures much more efficient. On the other hand, most of the times providing this mechanism is not possible, and because of this, reasonable amount of lectures left unimplemented and unfinished.   

The important fact that makes taxonomy analysis, synthesis, and evaluation "high-order" is these cognitive skills are requiring the lower-level skills to function and exist. It not will be possible to exist these high-order skills without knowledge, comprehension, application skills. High order skills have important role on lectures but, in order to benefit this role, student should have been acquired the lower-level skills, otherwise it might not be that helpful. For example in order to make analysis on a subject, students first needs to grasp the knowledge, and have comprehension about subject and needs to demonstrate application examples. After these essential lower-level are provided then commiting higher-order skills will be healty and benecial.

In my experience, the most natural implementation of Bloom's taxonomy, is application skills, I have been developing web applications for about a year and I learn most of the technologies and coding skills via constructing projects, and applying methodologies. By doing projects with my own hand helped me to learn much more effectively. When I learn about new technologies, I make little reading and information gathering about the new technology and I immediately use such new technology and construct new applications with it. Also construction applications upon new learned material, makes knowledge long-lasting. I think that application skill is the most affective learning taxonomy on my understanding. On the other hand, I think that making analysis is the most challenging one, because it is a higher-order skill that requires decent understanding on subject. I think that analyzing and making comparison are undoubtedly intimidating, for example, when i develop a feature on application, the analysis side is testing, and in order to analyze the application, i must write a test subject that analyzes both user behavior and the apps implementation, so analysis skill is definitely hard one for me.
